==Led Zeppelin==
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Led Zeppelin were an English rock band active in the late 1960s and 
throughout the 1970s. Formed as the New Yardbirds in 1968, the band 
consisted of guitarist Jimmy Page, singer Robert Plant, 
bassist/keyboardist John Paul Jones, and drummer John Bonham. They are 
widely considered to be one of the most successful, innovative and 
influential rock groups in history.

After changing their name, they signed a favourable deal with Atlantic 
Records that allowed them considerable artistic freedom. Led Zeppelin 
disliked releasing their songs as singles; they viewed their albums as 
indivisible and complete listening experiences. Due to the heavy, 
guitar-driven blues rock sound of their first two albums, Led Zeppelin 
are frequently recognised as the progenitors of heavy metal and hard 
rock. However, the band's individualistic style drew from a wide 
variety of influences, including folk music, which they incorporated 
into their next two albums. Their untitled fourth album, which 
features the track "Stairway to Heaven", is among the most popular and 
influential works in rock music, and it cemented the status of the 
group as "superstars". Subsequent albums saw greater experimentation 
and were accompanied by record-breaking tours, which earned them a 
reputation for excess. Although they remained commercially and 
critically successful, in the later 1970s, the band's output and 
touring schedule were limited by the personal difficulties and 
circumstances of the members. Led Zeppelin disbanded following Bonham's 
unexpected death in 1980.

Since 1980, the surviving members have pursued solo careers and have 
also been involved in a series of collaborations and one-off reunions. 
In 2007, 27 years after the group disbanded, the surviving members of 
Led Zeppelin reunited (along with John Bonham's son, Jason) for the 
Ahmet Ertegun Tribute Concert at The O2 Arena in London. The band were 
honoured with the "Best Live Act" prize for their one-off reunion at 
MOJO Awards 2008, where they were described as the "greatest rock and 
roll band of all time".[2]

Led Zeppelin are one of the best-selling music artists in the history 
of audio recordingâ€”various sources estimate the group's sales at more 
than 200 or even 300 million albums worldwide. Their 111.5 million 
certified units in the United States rank them as the second-best-
selling band in the US. Each of their nine studio albums reached the 
top 10 of the Billboard album chart in the US, with six reaching the 
number-one spot.[3] Rolling Stone magazine described them as "the 
heaviest band of all time",[4] "the biggest band of the '70s"[5] and 
"unquestionably one of the most enduring bands in rock history".[6] 
Similarly, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame stated that the band were 
"as influential in that decade [the 1970s] as The Beatles were in the 
prior one".[7]
